.TH DOCSIM 1
.SH NAME
docsim \- query and compare text documents, with results ranked by textual similarity
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B docsim \fR[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIQUERY\fR [\fIPATH\fR...]
.PP
.B docsim \fR[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fB\-\-file\fR \fIFILE\fR [\fIPATH\fR...]
.PP
.B command \fR|\fB docsim \fR[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fB\-\-stdin\fR [\fIPATH\fR...]
.PP
.B docsim \fR[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fB\-\-help\fR
.PP
.B docsim \fR[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fB\-\-version\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B docsim
compares a \fIquery\fR against every text file in the current directory or the
provided search paths and sorts them according to their textual similarity.
.PP
A \fIquery\fR may be either a positional argument, the contents of a file passed
in with the \fB\-\-file\fR flag, or read from standard input with the
\fB\-\-stdin\fR flag.
.PP
docsim's default behavior is parse the words out of each file (including the
query), pass them through a stoplist to remove common English words, remove
suffixes from each word with Porter stemming, perform TF-IDF to weight terms
within the document and within the corpus, and report the cosine simularity
between every document and the query.
.SS Working with non-English documents or source code
.PP
docsim works best with English text documents, since the included stoplist and
stemming algorithm both operate on English words. Results won't be quite as
good, but those features can be disabled with the \fB\-\-no\-stemming\fR and
\fB\-\-no\-stoplist\fR flags:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
docsim --no-stoplist --no-stemming "interrogatione mea" ~/esperanto_notes
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
Similarly, the same flags can be applied to a repository of source code.
Operators (like \fB;\fR and \fB+=\fR) won't factor into the comparison, but
identifiers and keywords will.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
docsim --file main.c --no-stoplist --no-stemming **/*.c
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
However, docsim does support custom stoplists with the \fB\-\-stoplist\fR flag.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
docsim --stoplist ~/esperanto_stoplist.txt --no-stemming "interrogatione mea" ~/esperanto_notes
\f[R]
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-best\-first
When enabled, docsim will sort results from best to worst, instead of the
default (worst to best).
.TP
.BR \-\-file " " \fIFILE\fR
Read the query from the contents of \fIFILE\fR instead of from a positional argument.
.PP
.RS
This conflicts with the \fB\-\-stdin\fR flag.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-follow\-symlinks
Parse symbolic links in the search path. Default behavior is to ignore symlinks.
.TP
.BR \-\-limit " " \fINUM\fR
Show no more that the best \fINUM\fR results.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-stemming
Don't stem words. Stemming reduces inflected words to their word stem before
comparing documents, which maps morphologically related words to a common term
(so "spinning", "spinner", and "spins" might all map to "spin").
.PP
.RS
Stemming usually improves scoring accuracy in English, but should probably be
disabled when searching across code or documents in other languages.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-stoplist
Don't filter out common words, like "the" and "because".
.TP
.BR \-\-omit\-query
Don't include the query document itself in the results, even if it's in a
directory being searched.
.PP
.RS
This has no effect unless used with the \fB\-\-file\fR flag.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-show\-scores
Include the cosine similarity between each document and the query in the results.
.TP
.BR \-\-stdin
Read the query from standard input instead of from a positional argument.
.PP
.RS
This conflicts with the \fB\-\-file\fR flag.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-stoplist " " \fISTOPLIST\fR
Provide a custom stoplist to use instead of the default English stoplist.
\fISTOPLIST\fR should be a text file with one word per line. Those words will be
excluded from textual analysis.
.PP
.RS
Generally stoplists are filled with common words (like "the" and "because" in
English, or "char" and "struct" in C) that don't carry significant semantic
value.
.PP
Note that if the \fB\-\-no\-stoplist\fR flag is also set it will supersede this
one and the custom stoplist will be ignored.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-verbose
Print extra debugging information.
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Print the current version and exit.
.LP
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs if you find them:
.BR https://github.com/hrs/docsim/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Harry R. Schwartz <hello@harryrschwartz.com>
